---
layout: post
title: Nine.
---

#### Mapping a love story

For now, I'm focusing on the story of [Patricia and Bud](http://ottawacitizen.com/news/local-news/its-a-love-story-inseparable-for-51-years-ottawa-husband-and-wife-die-hours-apart). I figured, rather than spending time trying to find more stories for now, I would be wiser spending my time actually trying to see if this whole idea works in the first place. In order to generate the data I need to input on [musicalgorithms](http://musicalgorithms.org/4.1/app/), I first have to choose the geographical places to include on the map.

Patricia and Bud's story starts in Whitney, ON, just outside of Algonquin Park. Then, throughout the article, a few other locations are highlighted:

- a row house on Somerset Street West
- Queensway Carleton Hospital
- St. Luke’s Anglican Church
- Cozy's diner (now closed down, found the address [here](https://foursquare.com/v/cozys-restaurant/4b12cc2ef964a5205c8e23e3?openPhotoId=5097e3dee4b0e34d6463b82c)) and the laundromat next door
- Bayshore-area apartment
- Tim Hortons around the city
- Pinecrest cemetery

Once I have the locations, I can start finding their coordinates. I do this on Google maps: basically, you enter your location and right click on the pin. There will be a menu that pops up and one of the options is "What's here?". When you click on that, the latitude and longitude points come up at the bottom of the screen.

- Whitney, ON (45°29'37.6"N 78°14'15.6"W)
- a row house on Somerset Street West (45°24'46.2"N 75°42'10.6"W)
- Queensway Carleton Hospital (45°20'07.2"N 75°48'28.0"W)
- St. Luke’s Anglican Church (45°24'37.5"N 75°42'30.3"W)
- Cozy's diner and the laundromat next door (45°24'18.2"N 75°43'24.0"W)
- Bayshore-area apartment (45°21'18.1"N 75°48'24.0"W)
- Tim Hortons (45°20'54.1"N 75°48'16.9"W)
- Pinecrest cemetery (45°20'33.6"N 75°47'04.4"W)

I then separate these coordinates into the data I will input on musicalgorithms. Each coordinate will have its own midi file, which I will then work with on Audacity to create a sound clip. I input the numbers as they're divided in the latitude and longitude points. For example: 45°29'37.6"N 78°14'15.6"W becomes 45,29,37,6,78,14,15,6.

On musicalgorithms, you can choose how to scale your data (major key, minor key, blues, etc). This, I think, will depend on the placeor story that each location is telling.
